Have you ever wondered what separates
the ultra wealthy from the merely rich?
It's not just luck or inheritance. And
it's not even just hard work. It's
habits. Over the years, I've had the
privilege of meeting and learning from
some of the richest people in the world.
Their mindset, routines, and daily
practices are vastly different from the
average person. So, today I'm breaking
down nine habits that the ultra wealthy
live by. habits that you can start
implementing today to set yourself up on
a path to financial success. Money is
just one part of true wealth. The ultra
rich make it a habit to value their
relationships and health just as much as
their money. Many successful
entrepreneurs schedule out time to
dedicate to their family and invest in
their health rigorously as well as
invest in relationships. See, if you
have all the money in the world, but
your health isn't great, and you're just
sitting in a hospital, what's the point
of having that money? And if you have
great health and you have a ton of
money, but you have no relationships, no
family, no one wants to talk to you. No
one wants to be your friend. Life
becomes really lonely. No amount of
money can compensate for loneliness or
poor health. You want to dedicate time
to exercising, to eating well, and to
maintaining relationship. For example,
when I eat dinner with my kids and my
wife, I am not on my phone. Instead, I'm
talking to them. I'm figuring out how
their day is going. Even if my
3-year-old and 5-year-old tell me how
their day is going and they want to say
the same thing day after day, it doesn't
matter. I'm there to pay attention and
hear them out. Because if you don't hang
out with people now and take the time to
build those relationships, later on in
life, no one's going to want to hang out
with you. And as for health, you can do
something as simple as just walking
10,000 steps a day. My average is around
10 to 12,000 steps each and every single
day. Even on Christmas, I walk at least
10,000 steps a day. On top of walking
10,000 steps a day, five times a week, I
lift weights. The weights don't have to
be overwhelming. You don't need to be a
buff like a bodybuilder. The weights
just need to be heavy enough so that way
you can strengthen your bones and
maintain your muscle mass, if not gain
it by a little if you don't have tons of
muscle mass. Wealthy individuals don't
waste their time with small decisions.
If you look at Steve Jobs, he wore the
same outfit each and every single day.
And he just wore pretty much black. Why?
Because he didn't want to waste his time
on little things that didn't matter. In
essence, he was eliminating decision
fatigue. By eliminating decision
fatigue, you can focus all your mental
power on the things that actually matter
and are going to help you accomplish
your goals. Also, when you get rid of
decision fatigue, it reduces stress in
your daily life and it increases your
focus on high impact activities. When
you have amazing focus on high impact
activities, you're more likely to
accomplish them in an efficient manner,
have more time, and see better results.
What I like doing is leveraging AI.
Think about all the mundane, boring
stuff that you do on a daily basis. Can
AI help you with any of those tasks? If
so, use AI. If you're doing things that
require a VA, you can hire a virtual
assistant in another country for pennies
on the dollar that can help you out. By
just simplifying simple things that are
just eating up your time, you can focus
on more highlevel stuff that actually
can have a bigger impact on your wealth.
The latest I wake up is 4:00 a.m. The
earliest 3:00 a.m. And I'm not alone.
Many of the wealthiest people I know do
the same. CEOs like Tim Cook and Howard
Schultz start their days before the
sunrise to get ahead. When you wake up
early in the morning, you're not
distracted by tons of meetings or phone
calls. This allows you to focus on your
most important tasks. So, when I wake up
early in the morning, I'm able to knock
out a lot of my important tasks before
my children wake up and before they're
ready to eat breakfast and go to school.
Mornings offer unriped time for deep
work, planning, and execution without
distractions. For example, every morning
I spend at least 30 minutes working on
our marketing campaigns. These are
campaigns that have a direct ROI such as
our Facebook ads or YouTube ads or
Google ads. These are high leverage
points in my business that can make us
more money not a year from now but
actually the same day or tomorrow worst
case. And that's why I recommend people
should wake up at least an hour earlier
than they're normally used to. It's hard
for people to shift their schedule from
waking up at 8:00 a.m. to starting to
wake up at 3 or 4:00 a.m. But if you
just start by waking up an hour earlier,
you'll get a lot more done. And then
over time, you can work your way up to
waking up at 3:00 a.m. or 4:00 a.m.
Wealthy people don't just try to free up
more of the hours in the day. They also
work smarter and with more intensity.
Wealthy people maximize their available
hours and work with purpose. The simple
thing you can do is start saying no to
people. If people want a lot of your
time and it's not going to help move the
needle, just say no. This will allow you
to focus on the stuff that's really
important. For example, reading,
learning, listening to podcasts. This is
all important stuff. I set a dedicated
amount of time for learning and reading
and I try to limit it to no more than 30
minutes a day. On the flip side, I spend
the majority of my time solving problems
that can actually impact the business
next week or next month to provide
financial growth. At the same time, you
want to do this with balance. A lot of
rich people, millionaires and
billionaires, also save quality time for
loved ones. For example, Elon Musk has a
lot of videos publicly of him even in
the White House with little X, his son.
So, you want to make sure that you're
delegating time for different things and
tasks. And when you're working on a
task, try to block out small increments
of time. If you put in an hour for a
task, you may dillydattle and do other
things in the hour. But if you only give
yourself 10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30
minutes max for a task, you know that
you're much more likely to stay focused
and get it done within that aotted time
because you don't have too much time to
goof off. No matter what you're doing,
give it 110% of your attention. You may
not have as much time as other people,
but there's a lot of parents that eat
dinner with their kids and they're just
on their phone the whole time. I rather
spend less time eating and less time
with my kids, but actually talking to
them and getting to know them. You know,
there's some families that spend 2 hours
eating with their families, but they're
on the phone roughly an hour and 50
minutes. On the flip side, my dinner
meal is roughly 30 minutes, but I'm
giving my family undivided attention.
Ultra wealthy individuals don't chase
every new trend. They double down on
their expertise. If you look at Warren
Buffett, he never really invested in
tech companies until recently. He stuck
to what he knew, and that's what built
the majority of his wealth. Sure, he
made some money from companies like
Apple, but that wasn't until later in
his career where he hired a team who
truly understood tech better than him.
By sticking to what you know, you're
less likely to make mistakes. When you
master one field and you get really,
really good at it, it gives you
advantage over other entrepreneurs who
aren't as an expert as you are. within
that field. This is how you get your
upper hand. You spend more than 10,000
hours on the same exact industry,
mastering it, becoming better than
everyone else. What you want to do is
first identify your strengths.
Typically, what you love is what you're
naturally good at as well. If that's
something that you love and you want to
keep doing and you can see yourself
doing it for the long haul, go all in
and get really, really, really good at
it. Wealthy individuals know that the
bigger the market, the bigger the
opportunity for wealth. Just look at
Apple. They focus on the smartphone. Not
everyone has a computer, but most people
have a smartphone. And that's led to
billions and billions in revenue. Heck,
Apple is worth over $3 trillion. Why?
Because their product works for the
masses. If you can create a product or
service that someone needs to use each
and every single day, it has massive
profit potential. That's the key. Look
for something that people need to use
each and every single day. It doesn't
have to be the whole world. It could
just be a product for businesses, but if
they have to use it each and every
single day, you're on to something that
could be potentially really massive. You
also want to focus on industries with
high demand and daily use. The bigger
the industry and the more people use it,
the more revenue potential there is. The
wealthiest people in the world fail a
lot, but they never stop learning. Elon
Musk's repeated rocket failures
eventually led to SpaceX success. Mark
Zuckerberg hasn't won from every single
product that he launched. Heck, he's not
really talking about the metaverse
anymore. He's focusing on AI. Even Apple
has had tons of failures. You just don't
hear about them because none of those
products really took off. Those failures
are a lesson. Those lessons help you
refine your path to success. If you keep
avoiding all the stuff that caused you
to fail, eventually you'll be led down a
path to success. But the key is to track
your mistakes, analyze them, why didn't
they work, and then make adjustments so
you don't repeat the same mistake over
and over again. The ultra rich don't
just learn from other rich people. They
learn from everyone. Successful
entrepreneurs listen to the younger
generations, and they're also open to
listen to anyone, even if those people
aren't really smarter than them. You can
always learn something new. The question
is, are your ears open to listening? And
is your mouth shut? Because you never
know where you're going to learn
something new that can change your life
or your business. The world evolves
fast. You can't keep up with everything.
Just look at how fast AI has progressed.
The key is learning from others and
taking advice from people who have done
things successfully. If you do that,
you're much more likely to be successful
yourself. Finally, the wealthiest people
are avid readers. Warren Buffett reads
500 pages a day. Bill Gates takes two
week reading vacations. When you keep
reading, you're staying informed. This
helps you with strategic decisionm and
foresight. And many entrepreneurs even
read books and biographies of
entrepreneurs of the past. By learning
from some of these older entrepreneurs,
you can figure out different strategies
and methods to grow faster. Because
although times have changed, a lot of
business fundamentals and strategies are
still the same that they were over 100
plus years ago. I recommend that you
allocate at least 30 minutes a day to
reading and learning. And if you want to
learn more about habits and experiences
that contribute to my personal success
running a thousand plus organization
company, check out this next